README.md, before:

# Notes from the Library of Babel

The [Library of Babel](https://sites.evergreen.edu/politicalshakespeares/wp-content/uploads/sites/226/2015/12/Borges-The-Library-of-Babel.pdf) is a short story by the Argentinian author Jorge Luis Borges, that refers to a universe, in the shape of a library, which contains books for all the different possible permutations of the language. This means: every thought, word, or idea ever imagined.

> When it was announced that the Library contained all books, the first
> reaction was unbounded joy. All men felt themselves the possessors of an
> intact and secret treasure. There was no personal problem, no world problem,
> whose eloquent solution did not exist.
>
> [...]
>
> That unbridled hopefulness was succeeded, naturally enough, by a
> similarly disproportionate depression. The certainty that some bookshelf in
> some hexagon contained precious books, yet that those precious books
> were forever out of reach, was almost unbearable.

_Library of Babel, by Jorge Luis Borges_

## Counter-Culture in the Gen-AI Era

Finding useful information on the web nowadays feels like scouring through the _Library of Babel_.
Ad incentives, SEO hacking, and autogenerated content plummeted the quality of information to the ground.
Add to the mix an ever-growing workplace culture of nihilism, un-professionalism, and overall laziness (_oh, I just pushed this vibe-coded feature straight to production, who cares what will happen hehe_) and the result is a ticking time bomb waiting for the worst moment to detonate.

You need to become immune to the [_doomeristic_](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Doomer) AI propaganda. Economic opportunism, over-hyped valuations, and stakes far higher than we can imagine pushed companies and CEOs to make big promises to keep the ball rolling _just one more time_. Rest assured that the [Sword of Damocles](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Damocles) is probably not hanging over your head, but theirs.

Besides, if we software engineers become easily replaceable, what kind of guarantees do other white-collar professions have? We'll have greater things to worry about. Keep in mind that by _white-collar_, I'm even talking about the C-suite.

What's the best way to fight this? By finding, reading, consuming, and creating **good quality, human-made, hand-crafted** resources. This itself is an act of counter-culture, an act of rebellion.

This repository, article, or whatever you want to call it, will serve as a guide, a life jacket, or a lifeline to help you and I navigate the seemingly never-ending _modern-day Library of Babel_. Here I'll make a list of **personally vouched, curated, and good-quality** resources.

My only request to you is to collaborate. Step your foot on the break and take a moment to think. Stand against the system, and stop creating and consuming AI-generated slop. And remember, this is not an anti-AI crusade nor a [Luddite](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Luddite) manifesto, it's just a reminder that we should use these tools as a crutch, without letting them consume half our brains. So please, if this resonates with you, consider creating a **Pull Request** or **Forking** this to curate your own list of resources.

My idea is not to put just _any good_ resource, but instead the best of the best, _la crème de la crème_.

## Resources

### Some of my Favorite Books

- 📘 [Designing Data-Intensive Applications](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23463279-designing-data-intensive-applications), by Martin Kleppmann

- 📘 [Structure and Interpretation of Computer Programs](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/43713.Structure_and_Interpretation_of_Computer_Programs), by Harold Abelson and Gerald Jay Sussman

- 📘 [Domain-Driven Design: Tackling Complexity in the Heart of Software](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/179133.Domain_Driven_Design), by Eric Evans

- 📘 [Architecture Patterns with Python](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/50083115-architecture-patterns-with-python), by Harry Percival and Bob Gregory

- 📘 [Learning Domain-Driven Design: Aligning Software Architecture and Business Strategy](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/57573212-learning-domain-driven-design), by Vladik Khononov

- 📘 [Grokking Simplicity: Taming complex software with functional thinking](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/52257623-grokking-simplicity), by Eric Normand

- 📘 [Microservice Patterns](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34372564-microservice-patterns), by Chris Richardson

- 📘 [Monolith to Microservices](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/44144499-monolith-to-microservices), by Sam Newman
  
- 📘 [AI Engineering](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/216848047-ai-engineering), by Chip Huyen

- 📘 [The Rust Programming Language](https://doc.rust-lang.org/book/), by Steve Klabnik, Carol Nichols, and Chris Krycho (with community contributions)

### Interesting Articles

- 📝 [It's the Latency, Stupid](http://www.stuartcheshire.org/rants/latency.html)
- 📝 [Ruling the Event-Driven Architecture with RabbitMQ](https://medium.com/@jordan-temim/ruling-the-event-driven-architecture-with-rabbitmq-534798bdf17e)
- 📝 [Idempotent Command Handling](https://event-driven.io/en/idempotent_command_handling/)
- 📝 [Why You Should Never Use MongoDB](http://www.sarahmei.com/blog/2013/11/11/why-you-should-never-use-mongodb/)
- 📝 [The Heisenbug lurking in your async code](https://textual.textualize.io/blog/2023/02/11/the-heisenbug-lurking-in-your-async-code/)
- 📝 [Python Hashes and Equality](https://hynek.me/articles/hashes-and-equality/)
- 📝 [Friends Don't Let Friends Use Loops](https://bonesmoses.org/2014/friends-dont-let-friends-use-loops/)
- 📝 [GPT-4 can solve math problems — but not in all languages](https://www.artfish.ai/p/gpt4-project-euler-many-languages)
- 📝 [Hire people who give a shit.](https://alexw.substack.com/p/hire)

But as always, whenever you need reliable information about a specific technology, you should almost always consult first within the official documentation.

### Great All-Around Youtube Channels

- 📺 [ThePrimeagen](https://www.youtube.com/@ThePrimeagen)
- 📺 [Mental Outlaw](https://www.youtube.com/@MentalOutlaw)
- 📺 [Jeffrey Codes](https://www.youtube.com/@jeffrey_codes)
- 📺 [Internet of Bugs](https://www.youtube.com/@InternetOfBugs)
- 📺 [Luke Smith](https://www.youtube.com/@LukeSmithxyz)
- 📺 [DistroTube](https://www.youtube.com/@DistroTube)

For Spanish-speaking audiences:

- 📺 [CodelyTV](https://www.youtube.com/@CodelyTV)

Commit message:

added 'distributed systems for fun and profit'

README.md, after:

# Notes from the Library of Babel

The [Library of Babel](https://sites.evergreen.edu/politicalshakespeares/wp-content/uploads/sites/226/2015/12/Borges-The-Library-of-Babel.pdf) is a short story by the Argentinian author Jorge Luis Borges, that refers to a universe, in the shape of a library, which contains books for all the different possible permutations of the language. This means: every thought, word, or idea ever imagined.

> When it was announced that the Library contained all books, the first
> reaction was unbounded joy. All men felt themselves the possessors of an
> intact and secret treasure. There was no personal problem, no world problem,
> whose eloquent solution did not exist.
>
> [...]
>
> That unbridled hopefulness was succeeded, naturally enough, by a
> similarly disproportionate depression. The certainty that some bookshelf in
> some hexagon contained precious books, yet that those precious books
> were forever out of reach, was almost unbearable.

_Library of Babel, by Jorge Luis Borges_

## Counter-Culture in the Gen-AI Era

Finding useful information on the web nowadays feels like scouring through the _Library of Babel_.
Ad incentives, SEO hacking, and autogenerated content plummeted the quality of information to the ground.
Add to the mix an ever-growing workplace culture of nihilism, un-professionalism, and overall laziness (_oh, I just pushed this vibe-coded feature straight to production, who cares what will happen hehe_) and the result is a ticking time bomb waiting for the worst moment to detonate.

You need to become immune to the [_doomeristic_](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Doomer) AI propaganda. Economic opportunism, over-hyped valuations, and stakes far higher than we can imagine pushed companies and CEOs to make big promises to keep the ball rolling _just one more time_. Rest assured that the [Sword of Damocles](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Damocles) is probably not hanging over your head, but theirs.

Besides, if we software engineers become easily replaceable, what kind of guarantees do other white-collar professions have? We'll have greater things to worry about. Keep in mind that by _white-collar_, I'm even talking about the C-suite.

What's the best way to fight this? By finding, reading, consuming, and creating **good quality, human-made, hand-crafted** resources. This itself is an act of counter-culture, an act of rebellion.

This repository, article, or whatever you want to call it, will serve as a guide, a life jacket, or a lifeline to help you and I navigate the seemingly never-ending _modern-day Library of Babel_. Here I'll make a list of **personally vouched, curated, and good-quality** resources.

My only request to you is to collaborate. Step your foot on the break and take a moment to think. Stand against the system, and stop creating and consuming AI-generated slop. And remember, this is not an anti-AI crusade nor a [Luddite](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Luddite) manifesto, it's just a reminder that we should use these tools as a crutch, without letting them consume half our brains. So please, if this resonates with you, consider creating a **Pull Request** or **Forking** this to curate your own list of resources.

My idea is not to put just _any good_ resource, but instead the best of the best, _la crème de la crème_.

## Resources

### Some of my Favorite Books

- 📘 [Designing Data-Intensive Applications](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23463279-designing-data-intensive-applications), by Martin Kleppmann

- 📘 [Structure and Interpretation of Computer Programs](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/43713.Structure_and_Interpretation_of_Computer_Programs), by Harold Abelson and Gerald Jay Sussman

- 📘 [Domain-Driven Design: Tackling Complexity in the Heart of Software](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/179133.Domain_Driven_Design), by Eric Evans

- 📘 [Architecture Patterns with Python](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/50083115-architecture-patterns-with-python), by Harry Percival and Bob Gregory

- 📘 [Learning Domain-Driven Design: Aligning Software Architecture and Business Strategy](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/57573212-learning-domain-driven-design), by Vladik Khononov

- 📘 [Grokking Simplicity: Taming complex software with functional thinking](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/52257623-grokking-simplicity), by Eric Normand

- 📘 [Microservice Patterns](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34372564-microservice-patterns), by Chris Richardson

- 📘 [Monolith to Microservices](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/44144499-monolith-to-microservices), by Sam Newman
  
- 📘 [AI Engineering](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/216848047-ai-engineering), by Chip Huyen

- 📘 [The Rust Programming Language](https://doc.rust-lang.org/book/), by Steve Klabnik, Carol Nichols, and Chris Krycho (with community contributions)

- 📘 [Distributed Systems for Fun and Profit](https://book.mixu.net/distsys/ebook.html), by Mikito Takada

### Interesting Articles

- 📝 [It's the Latency, Stupid](http://www.stuartcheshire.org/rants/latency.html)
- 📝 [Ruling the Event-Driven Architecture with RabbitMQ](https://medium.com/@jordan-temim/ruling-the-event-driven-architecture-with-rabbitmq-534798bdf17e)
- 📝 [Idempotent Command Handling](https://event-driven.io/en/idempotent_command_handling/)
- 📝 [Why You Should Never Use MongoDB](http://www.sarahmei.com/blog/2013/11/11/why-you-should-never-use-mongodb/)
- 📝 [The Heisenbug lurking in your async code](https://textual.textualize.io/blog/2023/02/11/the-heisenbug-lurking-in-your-async-code/)
- 📝 [Python Hashes and Equality](https://hynek.me/articles/hashes-and-equality/)
- 📝 [GPT-4 can solve math problems — but not in all languages](https://www.artfish.ai/p/gpt4-project-euler-many-languages)
- 📝 [Hire people who give a shit.](https://alexw.substack.com/p/hire)

But as always, whenever you need reliable information about a specific technology, you should almost always consult first within the official documentation.

### Great All-Around Youtube Channels

- 📺 [ThePrimeagen](https://www.youtube.com/@ThePrimeagen)
- 📺 [Mental Outlaw](https://www.youtube.com/@MentalOutlaw)
- 📺 [Jeffrey Codes](https://www.youtube.com/@jeffrey_codes)
- 📺 [Internet of Bugs](https://www.youtube.com/@InternetOfBugs)
- 📺 [Luke Smith](https://www.youtube.com/@LukeSmithxyz)
- 📺 [DistroTube](https://www.youtube.com/@DistroTube)

For Spanish-speaking audiences:

- 📺 [CodelyTV](https://www.youtube.com/@CodelyTV)
