# Notes from the Library of Babel

The [Library of Babel](https://sites.evergreen.edu/politicalshakespeares/wp-content/uploads/sites/226/2015/12/Borges-The-Library-of-Babel.pdf) is a short story from the Argentinian author Jorge Luis Borges, that refers to a universe, in the shape of a library, which contains books for all the different possible permutations of the language. This means: every thought, word, or idea ever imagined.

> When it was announced that the Library contained all books, the first
> reaction was unbounded joy. All men felt themselves the possessors of an
> intact and secret treasure. There was no personal problem, no world problem,
> whose eloquent solution did not exist.
>
> [...]
>
> That unbridled hopefulness was succeeded, naturally enough, by a
> similarly disproportionate depression. The certainty that some bookshelf in
> some hexagon contained precious books, yet that those precious books
> were forever out of reach, was almost unbearable.

_Library of Babel, by Jorge Luis Borges_

## Counter-Culture in the Gen-AI Era

Finding useful information on the web nowadays feels like scouring through the _Library of Babel_.
Ad-incentives, SEO hacking, and autogenerated content plummeted the quality of information to the ground.
Add to the mix an ever-growing workplace culture of nihilism, un-professionalism, and overall laziness (_oh, I just pushed this vibe coded feature straight to production, who cares what will happen hehe_) and the result is a ticking time-bomb waiting for the worst moment to detonate.

You need to become immune to the [_doomeristic_](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Doomer) AI propaganda. Economic incentives, over-hyped valuations, and stakes far higher than we can imagine, pushed companies and CEOs to make big promises to keep the ball rolling _just one more time_. Rest assured that the [Sword of Damocles](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Damocles) is probably not hanging over your head, but theirs. Besides, if we software engineers become easily replaceable, what kind of guarantees do other white-collar professions have? We'll have greater things to worry about.

What's the best way to fight this? By finding, reading, consuming, and creating **good quality, human-made, hand-crafted** resources. Yes, nowadays reading a good book is an act of rebellion, an act of counter-culture.

This repository, article, or whatever you want to call it, will serve as a guide, a life-jacket or a lifeline to help you and I navigate the seemingly never-ending _modern-day Library of Babel_. Here I'll make a list of **personally vouched, curated, and good-quality** resources.

My only request to you is to collaborate. Step your foot on the break and take a moment to think. Stand against the system, stop creating and consuming AI generated slop. And remember, this is not an anti-AI crusade, it's just a reminder that we should use these tools as a crutch, without let it consume half our brain. So please, if this resonates with you, consider creating a **Pull Request** or **Forking** this to curate your own list of resources.
